while many early panel shows stuck to the traditional quiz show format in which celebrities tried to get the right answers and win , the primary goal of modern panel shows is to entertain the audience with comedy , with the game or quiz structure providing subjects for the comedians to joke about the american version of whose line is it anyway ? acknowledged this with the introduction , '' welcome to whose line is it anyway , the show where everything 's made up and the points do n't matter '' qis opaque scoring system is purportedly a mystery even to its creator , i 'm sorry i have n't a clue dispenses with points altogether , and many other shows mention points only occasionally or at the end , instead of continuously displaying scores in front of players 8 out of 10 cats is based on opinion polling ; what 's my line ? is about employment ; never mind the buzzcocks and face the music center on music ; a league of their own and a question of sport are sports-themed ; was it something i said ? , quote unquote and who said that ? feature quotations ; my word ! involves wordplay ; i 've got a secret is about secrecy ; to tell the truth and would i lie to you ? deal with lies ; and it pays to be ignorant and i 'm sorry i have n't a clue are parody twenty questions is based on the parlor game of the same name , give us a clue is modeled after charades , and call my bluff and balderdash are based on fictionary the first known example of a panel show in the world is the radio program information please , which debuted on 17 may 1938 on the nbc blue network an evolution of the quiz show format , information please added the key element of a panel of celebrities , largely writers and intellectuals , but also actors and politicians panel shows transferred to television early in the medium 's history , with the first known example being play the game , a charades show that aired on dumont and abc beginning in 1946 tv panel shows saw their peak of popularity in the 1950s and '60s , when cbs ran the three longest-running panel shows in prime time : what 's my line ? , i 've got a secret and to tell the truth after hignfys success , panel shows have proliferated on british tv , including , among others , qi on various bbc channels since 2003 , mock the week on bbc two since 2005 , 8 out of 10 cats on channel 4 since 2005 , would i lie to you ? on bbc one since 2007 , and the annual special , the big fat quiz of the year on channel 4 since 2004 on the radio , the news quiz , just a minute , i 'm sorry i have n't a clue and the unbelievable truth are among the most popular and long-running panel shows , all of which air on bbc radio 4 a revival of match game aired on the comedy network from 2012 to 2014 , the news quiz front page challenge aired on cbc television from 1957 to 1995 , and the charades show party game aired in syndication from 1970 to 1981 early japanese panel shows include 話の泉 ( '' source of the story '' ) , based on information please on nhk radio 1 from 1946 to 1964 ; 二十の扉 ( '' twenty doors '' ) , based on twenty questions on nhk radio 1 from 1947 to 1960 ; ジェスチャー ( '' gestures '' ) , a charades show on nhk general tv from 1953 to 1968 ; and 私の秘密 ( '' my secret '' ) , based on i 've got a secret on nhk general tv from 1956 to 1967 other shows include 日本語探qバラエティ クイズ ! それマジ ! ? ニッポン ( '' is it really ! ? '' ) , a celebrity word game ; くりぃむクイズ ミラクル9 ( '' miracle 9 '' ) , a show somewhat similar to hollywood squares ; numer0n , a celebrity numbers game ; and オールスター感謝祭 ( '' all star thanksgiving '' ) , a semi-annual celebrity quiz 