traven 's novel the treasure of the sierra madre ( 1927 ) : the line was popularized by john huston 's 1948 film adaptation of the novel , which was altered from its content in the novel to meet the motion picture production code regulations severely limiting profanity in film when null insists on consolidating the contract through his lawyers , either scul or bean yells out : '' lawyers ? ! we do n't need no stinkin ' lawyers ! ! '' '' the man who sold the world '' in mel brooks 's western blazing saddles ( 1974 ) , the line was delivered as '' badges ? we do n't need no stinking badges '' in charles swenson 's animated film down and dirty duck ( 1974 ) , a stereotypical mexican mouse character , wearing a sombrero and a bandolier ( probably in a parody of speedy gonzales ) , speaks the line as '' i do n't want your stinkin ' badges ! '' in the film the ninth configuration ( 1980 ) , when the asylum patients are quoting lines from movies , one quotes '' badges ? we do n't need no stinking badges '' in the ron howard film backdraft ( 1991 ) , william baldwin 's character tries to refresh his nephew 's memory by using a hand puppet to exclaim , '' spinach ? we do n't need no stinkin ' spinach ! '' in the film no code of conduct ( 1998 ) paul gleason 's character says in a bad mexican accent '' badges ? we do n't need no stinkin ' badges ! '' , then goes on to sheepishly mention that he was quoting from the 1974 film blazing saddles in spike lee 's american war drama film da 5 bloods ( 2020 ) , when desroche 's gunmen first try to dispossess the bloods of the recovered gold bars , the leader of the gunmen tells paul , '' we do n't need no stinking official badges in the game leisure suit larry 6 : shape up or slip out ! ( 1993 ) , the main protagonist has the line of dialogue , '' badges ? ve don ' need no steenkin ' badges ! '' to cavaricchi , the aerobics instructor in eldest ( 2005 ) , the second novel in christopher paolini 's the inheritance cycle series , a cobbler named loring eschews the use of barges as a means of human transportation , saying , '' barges ? we do n't want no stinking barges the 2 skinnee j 's song '' the good , the bad , and the skinnee '' ( 1998 ) from the album supermercado ! features the line '' badges , we do n't need no stinking badges '' sung as a refrain five times in a row in the season 4 episode 10 , titled '' there goes the neighborhood '' , of the the a-team , when shown the town watch fake badges murdock says '' badges ? we do n't need no stinkin ' badges '' in the episode '' it 's a nice place to visit '' ( 33 , 1967 ) of the monkees , micky dolenz misquoted the line as '' badges ? we do n't need no stinking badges '' in the '' ghost in the machine , '' episode 82 , season 3 ( 1986 ) of the transformers , the ghost of starscream accosts decepticon guards runabout and runamuck by saying , '' passes ? passes ? i do n't have to show you no stinking passes ! '' in the tv movie good luck charlie , it 's christmas ! , when asked to see some identification badges , the leader of a group of live action video game players responded with '' badges ? we do n't need no stinkin ' badges ! '' in the episode '' musta been a beautiful baby '' ( episode 28 , october 13 , 1993 ) of adventures of sonic the hedgehog , scratch and grounder masquerade as police officers from the '' department of lost kids '' , and when asked for their badges , reply '' badges ? we do n't need no stinking— '' before being cut off and thrown out in the episode '' gumby with a pokey '' ( season 7 , episode 21 , may 17 , 2010 ) of two and a half men , berta and charlie are quoting movies while high , and berta says the line '' badges ? we do n't need no stinkin ' badges ! '' using a popsicle as a mustache 