greek and latin intellectuals as well as the modistae have contributed to the different perspectives of interjections in language throughout history some , such as thomas of erfurt , agreed with the former greeks that the interjection was closely tied to the verb while others like siger of courtrai held that the interjection was its own part of speech syntactically , much like the latin scholars in contrast to typical words and sentences , the function of most interjections is related to an expression of feeling , rather than representing some idea or concept emotion review , 6 ( 1 ) , 53-63 generally , interjections can be classified into three types of meaning : volitive , emotive , or cognitive cognitive interjections express feelings which are more related to cognition , or information known to the speaker of the utterance ( e.g a common distinction is based on relations to other word categories : primary interjections are interjections first and foremost ( examples : oops , ouch ! , huh ? ) , while secondary interjections are words from other categories that come to be used as interjections in virtue of their meaning ( examples : damn ! , hell ! ) primary interjections are generally considered to be single words ( oh ! , wow ! ) secondary interjections can consist of multi-word phrases , or interjectional phrases , ( examples : sup ! from what 's up ? , excuse me ! , oh dear ! , thank god ! ) , but can also include single-word alarm words ( help ! ) , swear and taboo words ( heavens ! ) , and other words used to show emotion ( drats ! ) for example , it is possible to utter an interjection like ouch ! or bloody hell ! on its own , whereas a different part of speech that may seem similar in function and length , such as the conjunction and , can not be uttered alone ( you ca n't just say and ! independently in english ) interjections can also be confused with adverbs when they appear following a form of the verb “ go ” ( as in '' he went 'ouch ! ' '' ) , which may seem to describe a manner of going ( compare : 'he went rapidly ' ) volitive interjections such as '' ahem '' , '' psst ! '' , and '' shh ! '' could be considered imperative , as the speaker is requesting or demanding something from the listener for example : ahem , ( '' attention ! '' ) may contain a glottal stop or a in any dialect of english ; the glottal stop is common in american english , some british dialects , and in other languages , such as german ) ugh ( '' disgusting ! '' ) ends with a velar fricative consonant , which is otherwise restricted to just a few regional dialects of english , though is common in languages like spanish , german , gaelic and russian this sound is a common phoneme in such languages as suki ( a language of new guinea ) and ewe and logba ( both spoken in ghana and togo ) yeah ( '' yes '' ) ends with the vowel , or in some dialects the short vowel or tensed , none of which are found at the end of any regular english words 