, of all coupling constants , all elementary particle masses and all mixing angles of elementary particles ? is there a theory which explains why the gauge groups of the standard model are as they are , and why observed spacetime has 3 spatial dimensions and 1 temporal dimension ? are '' fundamental physical constants '' really fundamental or do they vary over time ? are any of the fundamental particles in the standard model of particle physics actually composite particles too tightly bound to observe as such at current experimental energies ? are there elementary particles that have not yet been observed , and , if so , which ones are they and what are their properties ? are there fifth force ? arrow of time ( e.g entropy ( arrow of time ) ) : why does time have a direction ? why did the universe have such low entropy in the past , and time correlates with the universal ( but not local ) increase in entropy , from the past and to the future , according to the second law of thermodynamics ? why are cp violations observed in certain weak force decays , but not elsewhere ? are cp violations somehow a product of the second law of thermodynamics , or are they a separate arrow of time ? are there exceptions to the principle of causality ? is there a single possible past ? is the present moment physically distinct from the past and future , or is it merely an emergent property of consciousness ? what links the quantum arrow of time to the thermodynamic arrow ? interpretation of quantum mechanics : how does the quantum description of reality , which includes elements such as the superposition of states and wavefunction collapse or quantum decoherence , give rise to the reality we perceive ? another way of stating this question regards the measurement problem : what constitutes a '' measurement '' which apparently causes the wave function to collapse into a definite state ? unlike classical physical processes , some quantum mechanical processes ( such as quantum teleportation arising from quantum entanglement ) can not be simultaneously '' local '' , '' causal '' , and '' real '' , but it is not obvious which of these properties must be sacrificed , or if an attempt to describe quantum mechanical processes in these senses is a category error such that a proper understanding of quantum mechanics would render the question meaningless can a multiverse resolve it ? yang–mills theory : given an arbitrary compact gauge group , does a non-trivial quantum yang–mills theory with a finite mass gap exist ? ( this problem is also listed as one of the millennium prize problems in mathematics 7 , 269 , 1989 , is this because there exist multiverse with different constants , or are our universe 's constants the result of chance , or some other factor or process ? in particular , tegmark 's mathematical universe hypothesis of abstract mathematics parallel universe formalized models , and the string theory landscape of spacetime regions having different formalized sets of laws and physical constants from that of the surrounding space—require formalization quantum field theory : is it possible to construct , in the mathematically rigorous framework of algebraic qft , a theory in 4-dimensional spacetime that includes interactions and does not resort to perturbative methods ? locality : are there non-local phenomena in quantum physics ? if they exist , are non-local phenomena limited to the entanglement revealed in the violations of the bell 's theorem , or can information and conserved quantities also move in a non-local way ? under what circumstances are non-local phenomena observed ? what does the existence or absence of non-local phenomena imply about the fundamental structure of spacetime ? how does this elucidate the proper interpretation of the fundamental nature of quantum physics ? how can these two concepts of time be reconciled ? cosmic inflation : is the theory of cosmic inflation in the very early universe correct , and , if so , what are the details of this epoch ? what is the hypothetical scalar field that gave rise to this cosmic inflation ? if inflation happened at one point , is it chaotic inflation , and thus ongoing in some extremely distant place ? horizon problem : why is the distant universe so homogeneous when the big bang theory seems to predict larger measurable anisotropy of the night sky than those observed ? cosmological inflation is generally accepted as the solution , but are other possible explanations such as a variable speed of light more appropriate ? origin and future of the universe : big_bang pre–big_bang_cosmology is the universe heading towards a big freeze , a big rip , a big crunch , or a big bounce ? or is it part of an infinitely recurring cyclic model ? size of universe : the diameter of the observable universe is about 93 billion light-years , but what is the size of the whole universe ? baryon asymmetry : why is there far more matter than antimatter in the observable universe ? ( this may be solved due to the apparent asymmetry in neutrino-antineutrino oscillations ) cosmological constant problem : why does the zero-point energy of the vacuum not cause a large cosmological constant ? what cancels it out ? dark matter : what is the identity of dark matter ? is it a particle ? is it the lightest superpartner ( lsp ) ? or , do the galaxy rotation curve point not to some form of matter but actually to an extension of gravity ? dark energy : what is the cause of the observed accelerated expansion ( de sitter phase ) of the universe ? why is the energy density of the dark energy component of the same magnitude as the density of matter at present when the two evolve quite differently over time ; could it be simply that we are observing at exactly the right time ? is dark energy a pure cosmological constant or are models of quintessence such as phantom energy applicable ? dark flow : is a non-spherically symmetric gravitational pull from outside the observable universe responsible for some of the observed motion of large objects such as galactic clusters in the universe ? axis of evil : some large features of the microwave sky at distances of over 13 billion light years appear to be aligned with both the motion and orientation of the solar system is this due to systematic errors in processing , contamination of results by local effects , or an unexplained violation of the copernican principle ? shape of the universe : what is the 3-manifold of comoving space , i.e vacuum catastrophe : why does the predicted mass of the vacuum state have little effect on the expansion of the universe ? quantum gravity : can quantum mechanics and general relativity be realized as a fully consistent theory ( perhaps as a quantum field theory ) ? is spacetime fundamentally continuous or discrete ? would a consistent theory involve a force mediated by a hypothetical graviton , or be a product of a discrete structure of spacetime itself ( as in loop quantum gravity ) ? are there deviations from the predictions of general relativity at very small or very large scales or in other extreme circumstances that flow from a quantum gravity mechanism ? black holes , black hole information paradox , and black hole radiation : do black holes produce thermal radiation , as expected on theoretical grounds ? does this radiation contain information about their inner structure , as suggested by gauge–gravity duality , or not , as implied by hawking 's original calculation ? if not , and black holes can evaporate away , what happens to the information stored in them ( since quantum mechanics does not provide for the destruction of information ) ? or does the radiation stop at some point leaving black hole remnants ? is there another way to probe their internal structure somehow , if such a structure even exists ? the cosmic censorship hypothesis and the chronology protection conjecture : can singularities not hidden behind an event horizon , known as '' naked singularities '' , arise from realistic initial conditions , or is it possible to prove some version of the '' cosmic censorship hypothesis '' of roger penrose which proposes that this is impossible ? similarly , will the closed timelike curves which arise in some solutions to the equations of general relativity ( and which imply the possibility of backwards time travel ) be ruled out by a theory of quantum gravity which unites general relativity with quantum mechanics , as suggested by the '' chronology protection conjecture '' of stephen hawking ? why are these scales so different from each other ? what prevents quantities at the electroweak scale , such as the higgs boson mass , from getting renormalization on the order of the planck scale ? is the solution supersymmetry , extra dimensions , or just anthropic fine-tuning ? planck particle : the planck mass plays an important role in parts of mathematical physics proton decay and spin crisis : is the proton fundamentally stable ? or does it decay with a finite lifetime as predicted by some extensions to the standard model ? how do the quarks and gluons carry the spin of protons ? supersymmetry : is spacetime supersymmetry realized at tev scale ? if so , what is the mechanism of supersymmetry breaking ? does supersymmetry stabilize the electroweak scale , preventing high quantum corrections ? does the lightest superpartner ( lsp ) comprise dark matter ? generations of matter : why are there three generations of quarks and leptons ? is there a theory that can explain the masses of particular quarks and leptons in particular generations from first principles ( a theory of yukawa couplings ) ? neutrino mass : what is the mass of neutrinos , whether they follow dirac or majorana statistics ? is the mass hierarchy normal or inverted ? is the cp violating phase equal to 0 ? strong cp problem and axions : why is the strong nuclear interaction invariant to parity and charge conjugation ? is peccei–quinn theory the solution to this problem ? could axions be the main component of dark matter ? anomalous magnetic dipole moment : why is the experimentally measured value of the muon 's anomalous magnetic dipole moment ( '' muon g−2 '' ) significantly different from the theoretically predicted value of that physical constant ? proton radius puzzle : what is the electric charge radius of the proton ? how does it differ from gluonic charge ? pentaquarks and other exotic hadrons : what combinations of quarks are possible ? why were pentaquarks so difficult to discover ? are they a tightly-bound system of five elementary particles , or a more weakly-bound pairing of a baryon and a meson ? mu problem : problem of supersymmetry theories , concerned with understanding the parameters of the theory the lithium problem : why is there a discrepancy between the amount of lithium-7 predicted to be produced in big bang nucleosynthesis and the amount observed in very old stars ? ultraluminous x-ray sources ( ulxs ) : what powers x-ray sources that are not associated with active galactic nuclei but exceed the eddington limit of a neutron star or stellar black hole ? are they due to intermediate mass black holes ? some ulxs are periodic , suggesting non-isotropic emission from a neutron star turbulence : is it possible to make a theoretical model to describe the statistics of a turbulent flow ( in particular , its internal structures ) ? upstream contamination : when pouring water from a higher container to a lower one , particles floating in the latter can climb upstream into the upper container high-temperature superconductors : what is the mechanism that causes certain materials to exhibit superconductivity at temperatures much higher than around 25 kelvins ? is it possible to make a material that is a superconductor at room temperature and atmospheric pressure ? amorphous solids : what is the nature of the glass transition between a fluid or regular solid and a glassy phase ? what are the physical processes giving rise to the general properties of glasses and the glass transition ? cryogenic electron emission : why does the electron emission in the absence of light increase as the temperature of a photomultiplier is decreased ? cryogenic electron emission phenomenon has no known physics explanation 